Answers: <Google Sheet link>

Please answer the below core-java Questions:

A.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans- The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (Javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.
Answer:

What is IDE?
Ans-A Java IDE (for Integrated Development Environment) is a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans-BlueJ.
    Codenvy.
    DrJava.
    Eclipse.
    Greenfoot.
    IntelliJ IDEA.
    JCreator.
    (Oracle) JDeveloper.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans-The Java application life cycle can be illustrated as in Figure, “The Java Life Cycle”. We can use any text editor to create the high-level Java text file. This file is saved as a .java file on the disk. We then compile this text file using the Java compiler, which result in a .class file being created on the disk. The .class file contains the bytecodes. The file is then loaded into memory by the class loader. The bytecode verifier confirms that the bytecodes are valid and not hostile. Finally, the JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and translates them into machine code.

what is class?
Ans- class is blue print of object.
What is object?
Ans- Objects have states and behaviors. Example: A dog has states - color, name, breed as well as behavior such as wagging their tail, barking, eating. An object is an instance of a class.
What is the entry point of an application?
Ans-An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application. Application entry points are used to control users' access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform
Why main is static?
Ans-because static allow main to be call without creating object of class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans-Object
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans-path is enviromental variable to use operating system and escutable and classpath is java compiler path.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans-Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior. ... An abstract class may contain non-final variables. Members of a Java interface are public by default.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans- no because they are oposit of them.
what is Access Specifier?
Ans-Access Specifier is ava helps to restrict the scope of a class, constructor , variable , method or data member.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans-Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a programming language model in which programs are organized around data.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans- java package is namespace that orginaze class and interfacess.java.lang package is imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans-API is Java application programming interface.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans- yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
What is Collections Framework?
What is Collection and Collections?
Explain what is main method?
What is StringBuffer and String Builder?
What do you understand by Thread Safe?
What are the latest changes in Java 8?
What do you understand by default method in Java?










