Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Ans--Data structure is a particular way of storing and organizing information in a computer so that it can be retrieved and used most productively. Different kinds of data structures are meant for different kinds of applications, and some are highly specialized to specific tasks.Data Structure is a way to store and organize data so that it can be used efficiently.
What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Ans-
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
what is an Array?
Ans--- An array, in the context of Java, is a dynamically-created object that serves as a container to hold constant number of values of the same type. By declaring an array, memory space is allocated for values of a particular type. ... An array element that is also an array is known as a subarray.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans---An array is basic functionality provided by Java. ArrayList is part of collection framework in Java. Therefore array members are accessed using [], while ArrayList has a set of methods to access elements and modify them. Array is a fixed size data structure while ArrayList is not.
what is LinkedList?
ans-A linked list is a linear data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations. The elements in a linked list are linked using pointers as shown in the below image:
How is an Array different from Linked List?
ANS--The major difference between Array and Linked list regards to their structure. Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index. On the other hand, Linked list relies on references where each node consists of the data and the references to the previous and next element.
what is queue?
Ans- The Queue is used to insert elements at the end of the queue and removes from the beginning of the queue. It follows FIFO concept. The Java Queue supports all methods of Collection interface including insertion, deletion etc. LinkedList, ArrayBlockingQueue and PriorityQueue are the most frequently used implementations.
what is stack?
Ans- Stack is a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure.
what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans- First infirst out and Last in last out.
what is the order of complexity?
Ans-- Time Complexity measures the time taken for running an algorithm and it is commonly used to count the number of elementary operations performed by the algorithm to improve the performance. Lets starts with simple example to understand the meaning of Time Complexity in java
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
ANS-This is a Java Program to Search Key Elements in an Array.
    Enter the size of array and then enter all the elements of that array. Now enter the element you want to search for. With the help of for loop we can find out the location of the element easily.
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans--A common programming task is to search an array for a given target value. ... Once a match is found, the function returns the index of the element whose value matches the target value. If no match is found after inspecting all the elements of the array, then the function returns -
what is tree in data structure?
ans- A Tree is a non-linear data structure where data objects are organized in terms of hierarchical relationship. The structure is non-linear in the sense that, unlike simple array and linked list implementation, data in a tree is not organized linearly. Each data element is stored in a structure called a node.
what is graph in data structure?
ans---Data Structure - Graph Data Structure. Advertisements. A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links. The interconnected objects are represented by points termed as vertices, and the links that connect the vertices are called edges.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
ans--HashMap and Hashtable store key/value pairs in a hash table. When using a Hashtable or HashMap, we specify an object that is used as a key, and the value that you want linked to that key. The key is then hashed, and the resulting hash code is used as the index at which the value is stored within the table.
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
ans--It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve it in constant time O(1) provided we know the key. ... HashMap internally stores mapping in the form of Map.Entry object which contains both key and value object.
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
ans--
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.




